Asynchronous operations guide review (#2055)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md

## Understanding tasks

> Meilisearch's asynchronous operations are called "tasks". After you have requested an asynchronous operation, you can use the [task API](/reference/api/tasks.md) to find the detailed status of your request. To do so, you will need the task's unique identifier.

Reviewer: Should we mention  the `taskUid` here?
```suggestion
Meilisearch's asynchronous operations are called "tasks". After you have requested an asynchronous operation, you can use the [task API](/reference/api/tasks.md) to find the detailed status of your request. To do so, you will need the task's unique identifier(`taskUid`).
```

### Summarized task objects

> Asynchronous operations return a summarized version of [the full `task` object](/reference/api/tasks.md#task-object). You can use the summarized task's `taskUid` to follow [its status](/reference/api/tasks.md#get-one-task).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asynchronous operations return a [summarized version](/reference/api/tasks.md#summarized-task-object) of the full `task` object. You can use the summarized task's `taskUid` to follow [its status](/reference/api/tasks.md#get-one-task).
```

Reviewer: We should also link the full task object somewhere at the beginning too

- [`snapshotCreation`](/reference/api/tasks.md#snapshotcreation)

::: note

> In a protected instance, your API key must have access to all indexes (`"indexes": [*]`) to view global tasks.

Reviewer 2: Nice catch 👍🏻

:::

### Task `status`

> Task responses always contain a field indicating the task's current `status`. This field has one of the following possible values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tasks always contain a field indicating the task's current `status`. This field has one of the following possible values:
```

}
```

> Later, you check the request's status one more time. It was successfully processed and its status changed to `succeeded`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Later, you check the task's status one more time. It was successfully processed and its status changed to `succeeded`:
```

}
```

If the task had been [canceled](/reference/api/tasks.md#cancel-tasks) while it was `enqueued` or `processing`, it would have the `canceled` status and a non-`null` value for the `canceledBy` field.

After a task has been [deleted](/reference/api/tasks.md#delete-tasks), trying to access it returns a [`task_not_found`](/reference/errors/error_codes.md#task-not-found) error.

## Filtering tasks

> Querying the tasks endpoint returns all instance tasks that have not been deleted. Use the `filter` query parameter to filter tasks based on `uid`, `status`, `type`, `indexUid`, `canceledBy`, or date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Querying the `GET /tasks` endpoint returns all tasks that have not been deleted. Use query parameters to filter tasks based on `uid`, `status`, `type`, `indexUid`, `canceledBy`, or date. Separate multiple values with a comma (`,`):
```

> To filter tasks, pass the selected parameters to the [get tasks endpoint](/reference/api/tasks.md#get-tasks), separating multiple values with a comma (`,`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

<CodeSamples id="async_guide_filter_by_ids_1" />

### Filter by `canceledBy`

> When cancelling tasks, Meilisearch generates a new `taskCancellation` task. Use the `canceledBy` filter to view all tasks canceled by one or more `taskCancelation` task:

Reviewer 2: First sentence is more confusing than helpful.

```suggestion
Use the `canceledBy` filter to view all tasks canceled by one or more `taskCancelation` tasks:
```

<CodeSamples id="async_guide_canceled_by_1" />

### Filter by date

You can filter tasks by their `enqueuedAt`, `startedAt`, and `finishedAt` fields. To do so, prepend either `before` or `after` to each field name:

- `enqueuedAt` → `beforeEnqueuedAt` or `afterEnqueuedAt`
- `startedAt` → `beforeStartedAt` or `afterStartedAt`
- `finishedAt` →`beforeFinishedAt`  or `afterFinishedAt`

This filter accepts dates formatted according to [RFC 3339](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3339.txt):

- `YYYY-MM-DD`
- `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ`
- `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS+01:00`

<CodeSamples id="async_guide_filter_by_date_1" />

The above code sample will return all tasks `enqueued` **after** 11:49:53:00 on 11 Oct 2020.

::: note
Date filters are equivalent to `<` or `>` operations and do not include the specified value. It is not possible to perform `≤` or `≥` operations with a task date filter.
:::

### Combine filters

> You can combine task filters to get tasks meeting specific requirements. Use the ampersand character (`&`) to combine filters, equivalent to a logical `AND`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can combine task filters. Use the ampersand character (`&`) to combine filters, equivalent to a logical `AND`.
```

> The following code sample returns all `documentAdditionOrUpdate` and `documentDeletion` type tasks with `processing` status in the `movies` index:

Reviewer 2: Put it in the same order as the code sample. More intuitive

```suggestion
The following code sample returns all tasks in the `movies` index that have the type `documentAdditionOrUpdate` or `documentDeletion` and have the `status` of `processing`.
```

<CodeSamples id="async_guide_multiple_filters_1" />

> **`OR` operations between different filters are not supported.** For example, you cannot view only tasks which have a type of `documentAddition` **or** a status of `failed`.

Reviewer: Would it be better to convert this into a warning?

> ## Paginating tasks

Reviewer 2: Very open to renaming this, since pagination mostly makes you think about front-end stuff. When people search "paginating", we want them to find the pagination guide, not this.

> By default, Meilisearch returns a list of 20 tasks for each request. You can adjust the number of documents returned using the `limit` parameter, and control where the list begins using the `from` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Meilisearch returns a list of 20 tasks for each request. You can adjust the number of tasks returned using the `limit` parameter, and control where the list begins using the `from` parameter.
```

> For each call to this endpoint, the response will include the `next` field. Pass this value to your next call's `from` parameter to view the next set of results. It is common to refer to sets of results as pages, and to the process of splitting and fetching these sets as pagination.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each call to this endpoint, the response will include the `next` field. When you call the endpoint again, pass this value as the `from` parameter to view the next set of results.
```

> When the value of `next` is `null`, there are no more tasks to view.

Reviewer 2: This is repeated at the bottom of the section, and makes more sense there.

```suggestion
```

      "type": "indexCreation",
      "canceledBy": null,
      "details": {
        "primaryKey": null
      },
      "error": null,
      "duration": "PT0.006034S",
      "enqueuedAt": "2022-06-20T13:41:42.446908Z",
      "startedAt": "2022-06-20T13:41:42.447477Z",
      "finishedAt": "2022-06-20T13:41:42.453511Z"
    },
    {
      "uid": 9,
      "indexUid": "particles",
      "status": "succeeded",
      "type": "indexCreation",
      "canceledBy": null,
      "details": {
        "primaryKey": null
      },
      "error": null,
      "duration": "PT0.007317S",
      "enqueuedAt": "2022-06-20T13:41:31.841575Z",
      "startedAt": "2022-06-20T13:41:31.842116Z",
      "finishedAt": "2022-06-20T13:41:31.849433Z"
    }
    …
  ],
  "limit": 2,
  "from": 10,
  "next": 8
}
```

To view the next page of results, you would repeat the same query, replacing the value of `from` with the value of `next`:
To view the next set of results, you would repeat the same query, replacing the value of `from` with the value of `next`:

<CodeSamples id="get_all_tasks_paginating_2" />

When the returned value of `next` is `null`, you have reached the final page of results.

> ## Task workflow

Reviewer: We should keep this too 👀 
I would suggest:
- We move 51-59 to the API reference under `/reference/api/tasks.md#status`. Maybe add a table for this
- Move the task workflow to line 51

1. When you make an [asynchronous request](#which-operations-are-async), Meilisearch puts it in the task queue, sets the task's `status` to `enqueued` and returns a [summarized `task` object](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md#summarized-task-objects)
2. When your task reaches the front of the queue, Meilisearch begins working on it and changes the request `status` to `processing`
3. You can cancel a task while it is in the `enqueued` or `processing` states. If canceled, it will have the `canceled` status  
4. Once the task has completed processing, Meilisearch marks it as `succeeded`, if it was successful, or `failed`, if there was an error
5. Tasks marked as `succeeded`, `failed`, or `canceled` are not automatically deleted and will remain visible in [the task list](/reference/api/tasks.md#get-tasks). They can be deleted manually using the [delete tasks route](/reference/api/tasks.md#delete-tasks)

> ### Task priority

Reviewer: I think we should keep this 👀

> When the returned value of `next` is `null`, you have reached the final set of results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is already mentioned in line 189

Reviewer 2: Keep it here, it's a better spot.

> ## Terminate Meilisearch while a task is being processed

Reviewer 2: Do you feel that this section is necessary and helpful? Does it make sense to exist in this guide, versus in the FAQ?

}
```

If the task had been [canceled](/reference/api/tasks.md#cancel-tasks) while it was `enqueued` or `processing`, it would have the `canceled` status and a non-`null` value for the `canceledBy` field.

After a task has been [deleted](/reference/api/tasks.md#delete-tasks), trying to access it returns a [`task_not_found`](/reference/errors/error_codes.md#task-not-found) error.

## Filtering tasks

> Querying the `GET /tasks` endpoint returns all tasks that have not been deleted. Use query parameters to filter tasks based on `uid`, `status`, `type`, `indexUid`, `canceledBy`, or date. Separate multiple values with a comma (`,`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Querying the [get tasks endpoint](/reference/api/tasks.md#get-tasks) returns all tasks that have not been deleted. Use query parameters to filter tasks based on `uid`, `status`, `type`, `indexUid`, `canceledBy`, or date. Separate multiple values with a comma (`,`).
```

> #### Filter by `status`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Filter by `uid`
```

The following code sample returns tasks with `uid`s `5`, `10`, and `13`:

<CodeSamples id="async_guide_filter_by_ids_1" />

> ### Filter by `canceledBy`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Filter by `status`
```
